Day 55: Kubernetes Sidecar Containers

>If you really look closely, most overnight successes took a long time.
>
>– Steve Jobs

We have a web server container running the nginx image. The access and error logs generated by the web server are not critical enough to be placed on a persistent volume. However, Nautilus developers need access to the last 24 hours of logs so that they can trace issues and bugs. Therefore, we need to ship the access and error logs for the web server to a log-aggregation service. Following the separation of concerns principle, we implement the Sidecar pattern by deploying a second container that ships the error and access logs from nginx. Nginx does one thing, and it does it well—serving web pages. The second container also specializes in its task—shipping logs. Since containers are running on the same Pod, we can use a shared emptyDir volume to read and write logs.


1. Create a `pod` named `webserver`.

2. Create an `emptyDir` volume `shared-logs`.

3. Create `two` containers from `nginx` and `ubuntu` images with `latest` tag only and remember to mention tag i.e `nginx:latest`, nginx container name should be `nginx-container` and ubuntu container name should be `sidecar-container` on webserver pod.

4. Add command on `sidecar-container "sh","-c","while true; do cat /var/log/nginx/access.log /var/log/nginx/error.log; sleep 30; done"`

5. Mount the volume `shared-logs` on both containers at location `/var/log/nginx`, all containers should be up and running.

`Note:` The `kubectl` utility on `jump_host` has been configured to work with the kubernetes cluster.

## Solution
```bash
# 1. Create the pod definition YAML
cat <<EOF > webserver.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: webserver
spec:
  volumes:
  - name: shared-logs
    emptyDir: {}
  containers:
  - name: nginx-container
    image: nginx:latest
    volumeMounts:
    - name: shared-logs
      mountPath: /var/log/nginx
  - name: sidecar-container
    image: ubuntu:latest
    command: ["sh", "-c", "while true; do cat /var/log/nginx/access.log /var/log/nginx/error.log; sleep 30; done"]
    volumeMounts:
    - name: shared-logs
      mountPath: /var/log/nginx
EOF

# 2. Apply the pod
kubectl apply -f webserver.yaml

# 3. Verify the pod is running
kubectl get pods -o wide

# 4. Vefication: Check logs of the sidecar to confirm it’s reading Nginx logs
kubectl logs -f webserver -c sidecar-container

```




